## Applying Optimization to NBA Lineups

### Introduction
  In recent memory, there has been constant growth around the importance of collecting data and utilizing it to help drive decision-making in every industry. The effects of data and its impact have been transferred into the professional sports industry as teams have implemented new tools to understand data. The National Basketball Association (NBA) currently uses analytics and data to form rosters in hopes of winning the NBA championship. The project’s main objective is to illustrate the solving power of binary integer programming and its implementation into the NBA. The model was formulated to optimize the total win share value to create a roster that can be successful against all-time NBA teams. Win share is a numerical advanced statistic that represents a player’s ability to influence winning.
  
  Data collection was the first step in further understanding the task at hand. Data from Basketball Reference was gathered, focusing on player name, age, salary, win share, and the number of games started. These data fields built the model with various constraints that improved the feasibility of the results. The model selected was a binary integer programming model. Creating a model has various components including identifying the sets, setting an objective function, which is either a maximized or minimized function, and selecting decision variables and constraints, which the model satisfies to produce an optimal solution. 
  
  The goal of this binary integer program is to maximize the sum-product of the win share for a player and the associated variable. The project deployed an iterative approach to creating a finalized model with each instance creating more realistic results. The finalized model has constraints, which bind the average age, cap the max salary, and limit one starter caliber player at each position. The model was created and optimized using the Gurobipy library in Python. The optimized results for the first model were 84.8 and 76.2 for the final model. The results of the selected decision variables for the first and final model were imported into WhatIfSports, which performs game simulations for the NBA. The created teams played against the 2015 – 2016 Golden State Warriors and the 2022 – 2023 Denver Nuggets. The simulation results provide evidence that indicates the success of the binary integer models as the overall winning percentages for a 60-game span were 0.867 and 0.682 for the two models, respectively

#### The link to the final presentation is provided here: [Presentation](https://1drv.ms/p/s!Alxwy6tfpIPZg7ZIDs9wUXqUhcCSTA?e=bwT6Yt)
