## Expanding Spotify's Business Intelligence (BI) Solutions

  Spotify is a highly successful audio streaming platform that has an immense presence in the music streaming industry, with an impressively large and loyal group of paid subscribers. Despite their current success, the company must constantly strive to create new content and drive innovation to maintain its hold on the industry and increase profits. In this paper, our overarching goal is to provide business intelligence recommendations to Spotify’s management and develop usable analytical tools to drive innovation and influence decision-making. 

  To do this we first give the reader a background on Spotify including information about their services, revenue, customers, and corporate structure. Additionally, we talk about why they are a stage 5 BI-driven company, and what types of tools they use to harness the vast amounts of data they generate. Next, we discuss two case studies that outline strong business intelligence solutions and can be related to Spotify to inspire new ideas for the platform. The first case study on Amazon is all about their collaborative filtering engine and the technologies that support it. It talks about how they utilize data platforms and data mining techniques to feed into their recommendation systems, along with the business implications this technology has. The second case study tells the story of how Netflix took a data-driven approach when creating their hit “Netflix original” show, House of Cards. In short, they conducted several analyses to create insights that would guide them toward the goal of creating a show that is optimized to become popular and well-liked by their platform’s subscribers.

  Subsequently, we propose a business intelligence solution for Spotify to increase usage of their music streaming platform across all users. This includes how the company could make use of data warehouses, how they could leverage different types of dashboards, along with other data-centric solutions backed by research. To support this proposed BI solution, our team created 3 deliverables: 2 tactical dashboards to be presented to management, along with a statistical analysis that incorporates machine learning. The first tactical dashboard analyzes a dataset containing information on individual listening sessions, which produces valuable information about premium versus non-premium user tendencies. The second tactical dashboard analyzes a dataset of 2,000 of the most popular songs on Spotify, aiming to provide usable information and recommendations for platform-original content creation, a practice in which Netflix excels. Apart from the two tactical dashboards, the team delivers a more mathematical solution, which uses machine learning to input attributes of a song into a prediction model to anticipate if it will be “liked” by the listener or skipped. Finally, we describe our recommended implementation of these practices by detailing the managerial, technical, and ethical aspects of the process.

#### The final presentation, see below, highlights Spotify's current BI framework and the team's suggestions for implementing dashboards and predictive modeling to continue to develop the BI infrastructure.
[Expanding Spotify's Business Intelligence Solutions Presentation](https://1drv.ms/p/s!Alxwy6tfpIPZg7ZFF_yT1KYGSMMS5Q?e=G5kled)
